okay I think we have like a couple of
things on the  agenda so
things on the agenda so
I think the first one was
around
please
to kind of give a quick update of on
where we are and then
and then  like we have a follow-up
and then like we have a follow-up
discussions on the archiving work
that Garen has been working on
maybe I can start with yeah face given
that this is like a quick thing
so yeah so like we have  we started
so yeah so like we have we started
to kind of  go back to the that fee
to kind of go back to the that fee
cap that  I was looking at the draft
cap that I was looking at the draft
it was first put together end of June
last year so it has been sitting
accumulating dust for a long time and
yeah so we're actually like looking into
this again
we started a
by doing a couple things so first one
was around
[Music]
refreshing the the cap to reflect
as much as possible where we left it
where it left things off in the on the
mailing list
there's plenty of still of open
questions
and  yeah we're going to go over that
and yeah we're going to go over that
I think the other thing was that we
started a thread  on this code on the
started a thread on this code on the
channels
so
yeah at this point it's more like yeah
we need to go through
and iterate on this  before we can
and iterate on this before we can
give more updates on on what's going to
be next on the on the feed front and
basically like the yeah what we're
realizing is that there are a lot of
things that we didn't incorporate yet
like there are
you know this was written before we had
for example the pre-flight
in the picture things like that so
yeah there will be a
for sure a little more a few more
changes that need to have to be done
but that's kind of  what we are with
but that's kind of what we are with
this  not everyone to kind of spend
this not everyone to kind of spend
more time on this just like  you know
more time on this just like you know
I'm inviting people to
to kind of follow the conversations
and
yeah
talk about and maybe help on you know
helping us making decisions on this one
do we maybe want to keep a free high
level overview of what is there and you
know what are the open questions we are
trying to solve a recent page let's
spend more time on the archival
proposal
yeah I think that yeah like so I guess
yeah good good point  like the type of
yeah good good point like the type of
things we are trying to
big issues I would say that we need
to
to kind of converge on  on the feed
to kind of converge on on the feed
front is
on what type of experience we want to
expose to contract developers when it
comes to the different markets that that
exist in the system
so we have the  different resource
so we have the different resource
types we have a
Ledger space we have a compute so
like  when when transactions execute
like when when transactions execute
we have a network bandwidth and NBS I
think in terms of C markets that's
Canada we have other things that are
related more to external systems so like
when people for example
produce metadata that then then gets
consumed by systems like  horizon or
consumed by systems like horizon or
sort of an OPC or yeah like  still are
sort of an OPC or yeah like still are
expert in red like uses  this kind of
expert in red like uses this kind of
of a data stream so like making it that
people can just
spam those other systems is is part of
the you know in school for for the the
fee schedule
and then what did I forget oh yeah
we have also archives  what has
we have also archives what has
basically answered
mandatory right like published to
those history archives
so making sure so that people don't use
that as they are alternative to
S3 or you know like
other places that you know when people
can store data if they want want to the
difference here is that those history
archives are
romantic analysis forever after so there
are some constraints there
and yeah so like the type of problems
around those  this  the the model
around those this the the model
for fees is how do we make it that we
can balance usability so right now you
know people used to do the classic
system they have
a very simple way to think about things
basically you have a base fee for one
operation if your transaction contains
more than one you just multiply and
that's kind of your your base in a way
to kind of think think about the you
know in terms of fee and if you want to
get ahead of other transactions on the
network for whatever reason
it just increase your your feeling
that's kind of it right
and
in soroban like the
because of the competition between those
different
resource types that are open-ended right
in terms of
consumption and competition so
yeah we're going to need
something a little bit better than that
I mean like they're they're like in
places like in
you know Italian they have
you know a version of what you can do
do with these so this is a
single fee for for everything
there are like proposals to make it
maybe okay it comes to
to different resource types but that's
nothing yet in Italian it is implemented
in other on cases like polkadot I think
[Music]
but yeah that's why we are kind of
trying to get
something usable
okay
I think that's kind of what I wanted to
talk about on the feed from just you
know heads up it's coming
let's see and  yeah we have the next
let's see and yeah we have the next
guarant that I think wanted to give us a
little more updates on last time there
was like we started to talk about the
archive
mechanism that allows to to save space
on the on the Ledger
so that we can keep the network
as cheap as as possible
and I think there were a few
interesting follow-up conversations that
also happen  after that in this Garden
also happen after that in this Garden
of this goal so
Aaron and give us maybe a
little a few updates on what's going on
there
yeah so I guess first I want to talk a
little or just have some time for
questions about the interface that we
talked about last week and so kind of
just like a high level summary of what
we went over  last time is essentially
we went over last time is essentially
all sort of on  data has this rent fee
all sort of on data has this rent fee
and this rent balance
and so every Ledger or periodically
you have to pay rent for keeping an
entry live on The Ledger and then
whenever an entry runs out of its rent
balance it could still be in from The
Ledger and then sent to the archive and
so with that interface we've kind of
exposed three different classes of
storage  these kind of three different
storage these kind of three different
types of storage replace  today what
types of storage replace today what
is currently the storage layer which is
like end dot storage in your smart
contract code and so with these three
types of storage Ares we have a unique
storage which is there's only ever one
version of the entry that exists the
entry either exists on the bucket list
or there's a single version of that
entry on the archive but never both
and this is useful for  types of data
and this is useful for types of data
that have security concerns such as
nonsense or certain types of
authorization where there could be
security risks and issues if you have
multiple versions of that entry  that
multiple versions of that entry that
could be restored kind of the the use
case here is if you could think about
Implement a nonce where you didn't
have this unique storage guarantee you
could find yourself where you have a
version one of the nonce in the archive
of like say value five and then version
two of the nonce and the archive with a
different value and then you can imagine
how a malicious user could restore those
entries in such a way that your knots
values out of date and not the correct
value that should be so that's unique
data it's more expensive because you
have to prove that something doesn't
exist in the archive whenever you create
something new and so there's a little
bit of work that needs to be done so
it's the most expensive data type but
it's reserved for like those security
and high-risk sort of entries and then
after unique storage we have what's
called recreatable storage which is a
similar in that recreable storage
entries whenever you run out of rent
balance also get sent to the archive the
only difference is that recreatable
storage might have different versions in
the archiver multiple different versions
exists at the same time the reason for
this is that whenever you create a
recreatable storage entry you don't
check the archive to see if something
already exists there and so say you have
something like a balance that got
archived and then you go to create a new
version of that after your old key got
archived in recreatable storage you
don't check the archive and so you just
create a new entry with the exact same
key and so you have this key collision
and so that's  it's a little cheaper
and so that's it's a little cheaper
than unique storage because you don't
have to check the archive and actually
show that this entry is unique that
could be multiple versions of it so it's
cheaper but it's not appropriate for
security types such as like nonsense or
auth where you don't want multiple
versions and so that's unique storage
and recreatable storage both of which
can be archived and then the final type
of storage is called temporary storage
and this are for short-lived entries and
so whenever a temporary storage entry
runs out of rent it just gets deleted it
doesn't get sent to the archive and so
temporary storage is an appropriate for
sensitive data that you want to keep
around like user balances but can be
useful for data types that either don't
need to live very often like a
short-term authorization to let an
address spend your funds for instance or
for data types that can be easily
recreated if they get deleted such as
like a payment path or a payment Channel
or something like that
and so I think
now even I think first I just want to
open up the floor for questions and to
talk about this kind of like a interface
and in particular talk about this like
three-tiered approach and having three
different classes of storage because I
know that there's a little controversial
and it's definitely a little bit more
complex on the current interface just
wondering if there are any questions
that
I do I do have a question if if I can
go for it
so this is in in my sense this is
actually a very good design I like it
excuse me I'm wondering in terms of
staging  this work I I it's quite
staging this work I I it's quite
complicated  and involved in some some
complicated and involved in some some
quantity of it is going to depend on
some pretty big components being built
out in terms of the archivers
which is fine and and I think we can
I think we can do some staging  I'm
I think we can do some staging I'm
I'm
in the sense of you know deploying
versions of zoroban that  have the
versions of zoroban that have the
interface but but you know some of it is
just defined to do nothing at this point
or that sort of thing
I'm a little bit concerned about the
unique storage one because unique
right off the bat has to have these
these  exclusion proofs in order to do
these exclusion proofs in order to do
any rights is that correct
yes I think what we could do is we can
still do a staging process right
and so I think what this would
probably look like in practice is
whenever we launch sort button we don't
have the archive built out and so kind
of  the current plan for you know v0
of the current plan for you know v0
on launch is to have the interface set
so to expose the unique recreable and
temporary storage entry types to the
user and then to charge rent
and so  the the thing that won't be
and so the the thing that won't be
there though is that whenever your rent
balance goes to zero you won't get
delayed and you won't get sent to the
archive because the archive won't be
built yet right and so I think for
Unique data in particular what we
probably just want to do is we can still
I think we still should launch  unique
I think we still should launch unique
data and recreable storage
just so that contracts can have the
correct Paradigm written at launch but
what we can do I think at the
implementation level is just the four
just special cases right so like before
we have these proofs we can just say
essentially like creating unique
entries does not require proof of
exclusion until we actually provide an
interface for those proof of exclusions
that's that's exactly the part I was I
was asking about is is do you think we
would just sort of make it an optional
field at first and then when we rev the
protocol the optional field has to have
a value in it and we'll Define what that
value is in the future well we could do
that we're actually now that I'm
thinking about it  what we could do is
thinking about it what we could do is
just  zero initialize through cache
just zero initialize through cache
and say the root archive hash is null
and then proof of exclusion become
trivial right because if your hash is
null  then you're guaranteed that it's
null then you're guaranteed that it's
empty and so I actually think we can
provide proofs of exclusion on day Zero
actually
if we just Define the the null hash
and so the proof will always be null but
that's about proof if your root hash is
null okay the other thing I'm thinking
is that
you want this you want to use uniques
for nonsense and  it seems like we we
for nonsense and it seems like we we
update nonsense quite a lot
and so I'm a little bit concerned about
sort of an expensive
operation that involves constructing a
proof of exclusion
has to
adhere to every every nonce update
certainly I I wonder about the nonsense
that are maintained by the auth system
maybe Dima could speak to that I think
the third yeah I can I'm sorry if you
don't mind current so I think guaranteed
is using non's example is well just
an example of  why this problem
an example of why this problem
matters for the built-in nonsense at
least  we decided to move forward with
least we decided to move forward with
a temporary knowns approach or nonsense
and signatures basically have some time
boundaries and  certain the temporary
boundaries and certain the temporary
Ledger entries so they don't even run
again
and  I would say this should be a
and I would say this should be a
preferred approach right like I
reiterated this several times in the
discussions here on Discord that with
the existence of temporary storage it's
a really good idea to try benefit from
it and
try to design for it right like in this
case of nonsense right we can have this
we need to bump it multiple times and
it's not super convenient and stuff and
I I think the main use case for The
Unique storage is really some admin data
like you really don't want your admin
entry to be taken over by someone just
because it has expired right you have a
token contract that you have insured
once a year ago and you have never
touched it but you don't want to wake
after a year the rent has expired you
don't really want someone else to just
re-initialize it because the entry has
expired so I feel like this is the main
use case and this is a really pretty
cold entries if you think about it right
so yeah I think thinking about this a
bit I I I sort of retract my concern
because I think you're right that if if
the system has a well-defined notion of
temporary storage with with time limits
on it then you just you just time bound
anything that is that is
you you propagate those time bounds to
the things that use that storage such
that they they would they would become
invalid at the same moment so I I can
see that being quite quite a viable
approach I like that that's good thank
you I also  once  make one
you I also once make one
additional clarification I think in your
original question you said oh do you
have to like provide a proof of
exclusion every time you update it and
that's not true  you only have to
that's not true you only have to
provide the proof at creation time
and then of course you have to
provide proofs if you run out of rent
and then get sent to the archive  but
and then get sent to the archive but
once it's actually live on the bucket
list then  it says just as if you're
list then it says just as if you're
modifying any other entry  the proofs
modifying any other entry the proofs
only apply if it's not on the bucket
list or if you're creating something for
the first time and so if it's like
again this is just an example but like
if it's a nonsense that's regularly used
then it wouldn't matter it would be
very cheap and efficient because it
would never get to the archive okay
and oh I have one other very minor
question  and this is more of a design
question and this is more of a design
like time to hit the thesaurus  we
like time to hit the thesaurus we
already have something in a system
called an archive  I I just feel like
called an archive I I just feel like
we gotta use a different word for this
because it's just gonna it's just gonna
follow up a lot of things that are
already referred our guys yeah maybe
like deep State source and like the yeah
I don't know what you're gonna call it
but maybe maybe not start with deep
state that might be a tough
a graveyard yeah
cool so I guess  any other questions
cool so I guess any other questions
about specifically the recreatable
temporary and then unique storage
interface before you move on
yes I'd like to ask
why
like is there any reason  why you
like is there any reason why you
don't use something like a bloom filter
to
to check whether the entry already
exists in the arch Avenue because
given  given the notion that we have a
given given the notion that we have a
bloom filter of all entries in the
archive we can probably
avoid having multiple versions of
archived entries and I think having only
one version in the archive and
preventing users to recreate
some entries that already exist in the
archive
makes a lot of sense easier
yeah so we definitely investigated this
a lot and we tried to find a way if
there is a way for validators to store
keys or to at least have some knowledge
of what's in the archive I think there's
a couple issues there so first  the
a couple issues there so first the
goal of the archival state is to bound
the amount of storage that values need
to store and so if they need to store a
key even though that's you know less
than storing the entire  data entry
than storing the entire data entry
that's still an unbounded storage so
that's issue number one but I think in
particular
you'd have to have a set of keys that
grows unbounded and that's not a great
solution because especially for sorbonne
data types there's a lot of instances
where the key is actually as big or
larger than the value because if you can
think like the keys are 32 bytes
and I'm not you know super in depth
at the current sort of implementation so
correct me if I'm wrong my understanding
is keys are 32 bytes but the value for
instance could be something as small as
I can that's only like four bytes or
something like that and so I think
you're not getting as good cost savings
as you think if you just store the keys
business set not to your Bloom filter
question or if there's a way to store
the keys in a more efficient manner the
issue with Bloom filters in particular
is that they don't it's very difficult
to resize the bloom filter and so if you
say I have Unbound State and say okay
we're going to pick a bloom filter
that's one gigabyte large
but in 10 years you need a larger
Bloom filter because you're getting a
lot of collisions and stuff it's
impossible to just resize that bloom
filter without having all the values
because whenever you change the size of
the bloom filter you have to rehash
everything that you've added to the
bloom filter which would not be possible
for the validators because they've
thrown all those values away and so
essentially to resize your Bloom filter
have to replay history from the
beginning of time in order to resurface
all the values that need to be in that
blend filter and additionally there's
still issues with Bloom filters because
they're probabilistic in nature and so
you would still have key collisions
sometimes or I guess
or not Keyhole rather because they
only return
they don't return false Nexus I don't
think but then there'd be certain keys
that just based on the probabilistic
nature of the bloom filter  the
nature of the bloom filter the
validators would think they're in the
archive even though they weren't in the
archive and so that would also be an
issue where  just based on whatever
issue where just based on whatever
your hash function is there'd be certain
keys that would essentially be
impossible to create because the balloon
filter thinks they already exist when
they really don't
so that answers your question about
the the bloom filter issue in particular
the issue in general as well
I'm not entirely  sure that
I'm not entirely sure that
the resizing  issue is  such a
the resizing issue is such a
huge problem because  you have an
huge problem because you have an
archive where you have all the keys
so once  in a let's say 10 years it's
so once in a let's say 10 years it's
possible to organize a resizing using
the archives as a source of all the
existing keys
and to make like a maintenance for all
the validators
as for the size of the bloom filter for
example I just checked and one billion
entries
with a reasonable
false positives like
Point
0.1 percent
probability of false negatives takes
about two and a half gigabytes so it's
not the clutch and it will be enough for
the first billion entries
I think it's a reasonable trade-off for
to avoid
some other complexities as for the false
positives case  I think since you have
positives case I think since you have
the vehicle tree or some other structure
if it's not set and so on yet then you
can probably check whether their hive
this is archive contains the given K
give given key if it's
let's say it can be a resurrected or
something like this maybe I'm missing
something because I haven't think about
this
for quite a long time but
do you still think that
using some Bloom filters other
probabilistic structures won't help to
prevent collisions of entries in
archives like maybe there is some other
option
because yeah this point looks like one
of the most controversial things about
the archives to me
yeah this is a an interesting idea
actually I think  you mentioned that
actually I think you mentioned that
perhaps use the bloom filter
as like a almost a caching layer for
efficiency and then
using the proofs as kind of like a
back end in case you get a false
positive I'm still not 100 sure if the
false positive case can be avoided right
because say like  from  this would
because say like from this would
be very frustrating from a user
standpoint say I have a key
or like there's some like
deterministic way to like Define cues
right so like I give my address
and then like the address is input
that generates
the keys for entries associated with
my account right like in a token
contract
if one of those keys is a false positive
then you just won't be able to create
any entries  based on your
any entries based on your
your the invoker address right and so I
don't know if there's a way if you get a
false positive to somehow track the
archive and say oh actually that wasn't
a false positive it really is it really
doesn't exist I promise
and so I'm not sure
if there is a way to get around that
case because I think like even if you
say like a reasonable false positive
rate like a 0.1 percent that still means
that one out of I think a thousand Keys
or maybe a ten thousand keys I might
be off by zero or something there but
essentially like one of the Thousand
Keys
you'll think it's in the archive when
it really isn't which means that you are
not allowed to create one of the
thousand one out of a thousand Keys
which I feel like could be a really
significant issue from the user
interface perspective
do you think  that  the time of
do you think that the time of
checking the existence of the key
over the Merkel tree or the miracle
trios or the structure you plan to use
for   archive proofs  it's like
for archive proofs it's like
a really huge time like seconds minutes
or even more because if it's
relatively small then
checking
checking the existence only for
conflicting entries and  you will be
conflicting entries and you will be
checking computer and entries only when
someone tries to create already existing
entry which
actually I shouldn't be as
as  often  operation so  like
as often operation so like
what are the time requirements for
checking against the try
also I think  one  clarification
also I think one clarification
here is that you can't just track
against the archive directly because the
archivers don't participate in consensus
and are not validators  they are off
and are not validators they are off
chain right and so you can't just like
search through the tree brute force and
trust that the contents are correct so
there has to be some way for the
archivers to give a proof to validators
that the validators can then validate
themselves and so I think that's why
part of the reason we're using this try
model where we can get both proofs of
explosion pros of inclusion because I
think  the difference between this
think the difference between this
case and the Ubuntu case is that in the
Ubuntu case you can trust the  the
Ubuntu case you can trust the the
archive in our case we can't trust the
archive we have to have some proof via
like a hash or something and so
I'm still I think I think it could be
interesting this Bloom filter approach
if we can
do the bloom filter
and then if there's a collision maybe
say even though there's a collision
in the bloom filter I'm going to go and
get a proof of exclusion
and that would perhaps make it more
efficient and mean that in most cases
you can get away with creating entries
without a perfect exclusion
but I'm still not sure what that would
look like I guess maybe what we could do
is you create your entry you check the
bloom filter and then if you get an
error on the bloom filter then you go
try to get proof of exclusion and if
there's a valid proof of exclusion on
chain that can override the bloom filter
that might be an interesting
optimization
but
I guess that's second point
for explanation I don't want to steal
the time  it's definitely
like I I need to make more research
on this and probably we should get back
on this in that sales matter to to
instill the time
on this question here thanks for the
explanation yeah I think that's a I
think it's definitely an interesting
idea that's definitely worth pursuing
I guess one question I would ask is
under this proposal of the bloom filter
and whatnot this would make all data
unique data and so I'm wondering if
there are use cases where a user might
actually want data to be recreatable
so thinking of the balanced use case I'm
thinking like is there ever a scenario
where it's actually an advantage to have
multiple different versions
as opposed to only having this strict
one  unique key
one unique key
per archive per bucket list so I'm
thinking like for instance in the
case of balances where the multiple
different versions of the balance can
just be summed together
is that a Advantage
and is there like a do we still want
to expose a repradable storage interface
so you can be even faster and I guess
like not have to do this like Bloom
filter check not because of exclusion
all that sort of stuff or is like a
strict guarantee one key no collisions
powerful and that we shouldn't expose
this interface at all
to tell the truth from my experience
there is  probably a known cases when
there is probably a known cases when
you need several versions of the same
major entry
in most cases it's even a destructive
problem right because
creating an account or something else
may
[Music]
be a huge problem
I I I'd say that the
use case for
like optional recreating
or maintaining several versions of the
same Ledger entry is a rather
and I haven't
seen any use cases for this
and just one question that basically
from the contract
to host interface tend to point like
there is no version in any Video Edit to
kind of work around some issues in the
current approach but in general the
interfaces that like you put something
into storage and it will stay there
quote unquote forever or you know you
put it into Temp Storage then it will
be removed after a certain time period
but you know like even from the period
is interface standpoint seriously no
case for this multiple entry versions
and  I think the main reason they are
and I think the main reason they are
thinking of hiding it is just to kind of
save some time and cost just to be able
to quickly create entries without proof
of Proof Set exclusion but it's more
like an implementation detail that
unfortunately the contract writers would
need to worry about in some cases versus
like you know something is there things
that can be used as a feature or the
contractor correct like if you need any
sort of person you can build it yourself
using just or as key so what not so I'm
pretty sure there is no legitimate case
for recreatable storage Beyond it like
or requirements to the scalability
yeah yeah like maybe I can add that
the reason
right now the the reason we are looking
at this recruitable storage
is
that we have token balances that are
interestingly
one of the kind of  primary use
one of the kind of primary use
cases for fast at all right and
if we don't have recreatable
storage we basically have either
Temporaries right  entries which for
Temporaries right entries which for
balance is a no-go
or going with those unique  entries
or going with those unique entries
and for that  you need troops
and for that you need troops
to create the balance so the cost of
an overhead of
just kind of setting up your wallet
becomes
you know quite quite big for any new
token that's kind of the the problem
here is that
I think the overhead of proofs is
probably acceptable the first time you
kind of create your own wallet on your
on the network
but anytime you add a balance for any
token
it seems
that  having this overhead is kind of
that having this overhead is kind of
too much
but yeah maybe we that's kind of part
of this discussion right to see you know
are we wrong here
yeah so I guess the the trade-off and
with the bloom filter approach where
you know and let's just put aside like
the  resizing and migration issues for
the resizing and migration issues for
now but the bloom filter approach all
data is unique
but the false positive  rate is the
but the false positive rate is the
percentage of the time that you will
need to provide a proof of exclusion for
creating new entry and so let's just I
guess the trade-off is everything is
unique and the interface is easier but
one out of a thousand Creations are very
slow and require process of create
precept explosion whereas if we have
unique data and recreatable data then
the unique data is guaranteed to always
be slow but the recreatable data is
guaranteed to always be fast and so I
guess the trade-off is do we want
all data to be fast most of the time
or all data creation to be fast most of
the time and sometimes to be really slow
for the easier user interface or have a
more complex user interface where one
type of data is always slow to create
and one type of data is guaranteed
always fast to create I guess that's the
the fundamental trade-off at least in my
mind
and that sounds about right like the
thing about the blue tilt the other is
that if in the context of like a balance
right
the ID the the key right of that balance
is actually deterministic
so as it's deterministic it becomes kind
of  attackable
of attackable
unless we can come up with like a
cryptographic  you know Broomfield of
cryptographic you know Broomfield of
sorts  it's it's very easy to
sorts it's it's very easy to
basically
you know cause certain keys to be  to
you know cause certain keys to be to
have complex in the boom filter and then
you're kind of back to
that you know even though it's one in a
thousand you know if you're the one that
is always hit by the
by the one  it kind of sucks
by the one it kind of sucks
what if  we utilize  B tree index
what if we utilize B tree index
or some other index or like
database  actually doing this
database actually doing this
and besides that the index itself can
reside  on the disk and
reside on the disk and
the Fast Cash can be implemented
using the bloom filter and the actual
track will be carried over the index for
example B3 index
database handle this
I mean the issue with an index is we're
getting to that issue where if we have
any deterministic index like that we
need to store the keys right
and then we have that same issue of
unbalanced State growth and especially
restore upon data where the keys can
sometimes be significantly larger to the
value so
I think any like deterministic data
structure we can't get back into that
issue of we have unbalanced State versus
defeats the purpose of the archive in
the first place
yeah I I just want to remind way
basically we still need to maintain
consensus and we cannot just like
randomly update boom shooter for example
right it has to be a part of consensus
so it would need to come up with some
way to Hash it quickly and add it to the
CP values and make sure it's archived
properly you know
significant amount of work and
I mean
you could say that the keys are stroke
in The Ledger forever and then you build
some sort of index on them blockchain
but then you know yeah it kind of no
longer fulfills the requirement of
having
limited Venture state cross which we
wanted to fulfill so it's kind of an
issue and yeah that for what source like
it was my first city as well like what
if we just throw keys in The Ledger but
yeah that unfortunately kind of doesn't
scale as well
yeah so I think I think the  Bloom
yeah so I think I think the Bloom
filter with a proof of exclusion
fallback for false positives it's an
interesting idea  I think we probably
interesting idea I think we probably
have some technical homework to do there
so I think it's all right for
everyone to move on to the second
topic
I'm not hearing any objection Celtic as
yes so kind of slipping away from the
user interface now talking about how the
archiver interface will be set up and so
currently
there are kind of like two proposals
one where we have an archive
interface that's a functions similar to
capture how Horizon functions now where
you go to a specific archiver you have
some URL endpoint and then you  query
some URL endpoint and then you query
that endpoint with the keys you want to
be archived
and so this is like a a model similar
to what we have today with Verizon some
of the pros there's pros and cons
what are the cons that you have to have
like a personal relationship or at least
know an archiver to go to
and then it's not super clear how we
could incentivize or monetize this sort
of interface perhaps you would have to
like pay a monthly subscription to the
archive or perhaps you'd have some
relationship where you like pay your
archive or per entry lookup or something
like that but it's not super clear how
we incentivize people actually brought
in archivers in this setup so the second
scenario is where we have kind of
what I'm referring to as the archive
miners  kind of stealing the minor
miners kind of stealing the minor
terminology from Bitcoin
so essentially how this would work
is instead of acquiring an archiver
directly whenever you need a proof you
submit a proof request
on chain now this could either be
implemented at the protocol level where
proof request is an operation or this
might also be able to be implemented by
like a first party smart contract but
that's not really important right now
but essentially you would just submit an
operation that requests an archival
proof and then by submitting this
operation you'd submit meta information
that archivers could then adjust and
that's how the archivers would know
about the requests and as part of this
operation you would say the key you want
to be proven the type of proof select
proof of inclusion proof exclusion and
then also a reward and this reward would
be variable and you would be  the
be variable and you would be the
would be at the user's discretion as to
what to set this reward to and then this
operation this request would go on chain
and the metal would be a submit and so
an archival within Injustice meta and
then pick what
requests they want to service and so
they could reservice the request that
has the highest reward first
and then they construct the proof
with the information that they store and
then they submit the proof another
operation and then the proof itself
becomes an entry on The Ledger and so
once that proof has been submitted and
validated and the proof is on Ledger
then the proof or the proof request is
deleted and the reward is given to
whoever submitted the correct archival
proof first and so this is  I think a
proof first and so this is I think a
better interface because it has a
clearly defined incentive structure and
also doesn't require any personal
relationships with an archiver and so
you don't have to have a URL that you
talk to or you don't have to have a
relationship with some company that you
pay monthly to pay some subscription fee
in order to access the archive it also
allows archivers to freely
enter and exit the network as they
please and also by having a variable
reward that the user can set you can
also have essentially like a built-in
supply and demand Dynamics where that
price fluctuates over time depending on
how many  people want to restore
how many people want to restore
archived entries and how many archivers
want to service archives and so I guess
generally speaking what are your
thoughts on the two approaches  and
thoughts on the two approaches and
kind of the leading approach being this
I'm submitting  proof request to the
I'm submitting proof request to the
chain and then having archivers  read
chain and then having archivers read
the chain and then  submit the proofs
the chain and then submit the proofs
how do we feel about that
have you ever speak
let's see so like the the thing I'm
thinking of right in terms of like
meaningful viable product I'm
thinking the having a way to talk
directly to archives is is kind of a
foolproof
the  the approach where you use the
the the approach where you use the
on-chain state
I think I mean it's I think there
is like good potential there I think
it's  it's going to be fairly tricky
it's it's going to be fairly tricky
to get this right  the reason being
to get this right the reason being
that basically
your so you have
you're not creating like intrinsic
value right to certain transactions
that are being published on the
overlay and therefore a
[Music]
like a board of source right can can
look at this overlay traffic and
don't run take the data right that is
the primage right the proof
and from the  the archival that
and from the the archival that
actually did the work
and benefit from the academy so I think
there is like an interesting problem
there to solve
in terms of like how can you safely
disclose the  the proof to the
disclose the the proof to the
network without being from
sinus right
interesting some entities that
can be signing it
refining
well the issue that was signing is how
can like  like the mental not just
can like like the mental not just
like take your proof and then sign with
its own address
and then submit as if it was the
originator
yeah that's fair I'm not sure
and I think there might be ways to do it
right like it's a it's a
maybe what you you you you it's like a
multiple multi-step thing right where
you you because you were first to
disclose let's say the harsh of the
proof
before you actually disclosure proof
then you're the one you know if it's a
contract that's doing the that work
then we can basically give the
the first  you know first one
the first you know first one
the benefit I mean at the same time like
a
yeah maybe a bot can I mean it becomes
kind of a a cat and you know a nice game
right like where you
yeah
how to do this safely
yeah I think in the front room
like because you know yours are like
super nice people that maybe on  I
super nice people that maybe on I
mean not trying to game the system
yeah I I thought like the  the front
yeah I I thought like the the front
running  I did was just to like  if
running I did was just to like if
they're the same proofs multiple the
same proofs in the same block just or
randomly pick one but I didn't think
about this proof stealing case
in front running by stealing proof so
this is definitely an interesting issue
to think about but I still I still like
the model where you don't have to have a
relationship with the archive for a
couple of reasons so first
it's likely that especially you know
if the archive systems run for a long
time archivers will not store the entire
archive I think it's a good idea to let
the archive pick and choose how much or
how little of his or of the archive
history they want to store and so I can
see an archiver that only stores the
last five years one that stores the last
10 years and then one that's like a more
expensive on the stores like the last 50
years for instance I think if you have
to like individually query an archiver
you have this weird interface where for
things that are three years old you can
maybe query a cheap archiver and then
for things that are older you have to
change your URL or something like that
to Target like a different archive that
has more history state or something like
that and so I think there's still some
some interface issues with  having to
some interface issues with having to
talk to the archiver directly but at
least on the top of my head I don't have
a great solution to the stealing proofs
thing
I think that's the challenges
yeah I was going to say like the the
I think it's it's a we should definitely
be looking into those mechanisms that
are like a little more distributed right
from a you know Discovery Point of View
I think all it means is that
we use
we we have the proper semantics on
network to allow for for doing this so
like I think for example like the thing
where we have
proofs that are usable independently of
using  you know the entries
using you know the entries
yeah I think this is like a a key
property that we need to have right
because I I know like one of the earlier
drafts
was requiring people to submit proofs
in the same transaction  that they
in the same transaction that they
were going to use the you know the
actual and actually restore the entry
and obviously this  this would not
and obviously this this would not
work in you know would not enable the
type of
of scenarios
yeah I definitely like having having the
or the proofs themselves be Ledger
entries
I just I think we just need to find the
the best way to
to make sure the system isn't getting it
or gained
yeah yeah there's a because there's not
a clear solution because I mean you
could submit say like before you submit
the proof If you submit the hash to say
hey I was here first and then submit the
proof of the next Ledger but then you
could open yourself up to Dos attacks
for a malicious user could just generate
a bunch of dummy proofs and then submit
them for every archive request and then
archivers would not  want to service
archivers would not want to service
those requests because something's
already spoken for it and issues like
that so
so I think we need to think about but I
definitely like I think we definitely
should have  the proofs on chain like
should have the proofs on chain like
you mentioned
and we should see if there's a way to
solve this issue in a way that makes
sense
if you have a you know a few more
minutes left  was there like some
minutes left was there like some
other
topic that you wanted to cover as part
of of this yes I guess one other
question that's kind of that we don't
have a great solution for
and this is one that we need to
figure out here pretty soon because it's
required to launch for v0 is how to bump
rent and so right now whenever you
create an entry
it's created and initializes rent
balance to some amount but there doesn't
seem to be a great way in order to bump
rent and to actually increase that rent
balance and so kind of the initial
thought was Hey whenever you access
something increase the rent
and that's way that the things that
are accessed most commonly automatically
have their rent increased and so if you
access something a lot it will most
likely be on the buy policy and we'll
have to unarchive it now for read write
items it's easy because you have to
rewrite the entry anyway so you might as
well bump the rent however  it's not
well bump the rent however it's not
clear how to bump rent on read only
items so for instance
if you have auth
say like an auth record that's almost
never changed but is read often
you would want to bump the rent on reads
so that you wouldn't have to constantly
unarchive it the issue is  because the
unarchive it the issue is because the
way the bucket list is structured
there's no way to bump rent without
rewriting the entry because
essentially the way the bucket list
is structured entries and buckets are
immutable and so in order to update an
entry it's not like SQL you can just go
to the entry and then change a value you
have to completely rewrite the entry and
so we wouldn't want to bump rent on
every read because then we're implicitly
at the systems level turning reads into
read writes which we don't want to do
and so I guess  in the read write case
and so I guess in the read write case
we obviously want to bump rent but I was
wondering if there are any ideas as to
what to do for like read-only data and
how to handle rent in that regard
well  simple way I've been thinking
well simple way I've been thinking
about is
well you just said with online but you
know I'm exposed just some contract
function but that's free tried access to
the entries that you want to bomb
and nothing else
that will basically
you know to call just as any other
contract function to bounce around
but that maybe can be generalized to
you know post functions that allows you
action arbitrary entries without
accessing them so that you know you
don't need to
maintain any invariants in terms of like
only the contract can modify its own
data I guess they can all agree that one
pins or end is always positive right so
anyone can do that and then you know
just kind of cost functions it takes a
bunch of majorities catches them at
print right
supposing pumpkins rent by whatever
mechanism they come up this
which again is not super pretty but
that makes it possible to do the pump
without touching the contract code and
increasing inside guys and so on so
you know it's a basically a generic way
to maintain your contracts I think it's
maybe viable
yeah I think the host function could be
good I think the only issue with that is
key Discovery is still an issue
and then it might be difficult to
determine what keys you need to bump
around for  in the host function
around for in the host function
but perhaps one another thing is we
could
expose a explicit  rent bump
expose a explicit rent bump
at like the storage interface
and then also make the current rent
balance  readable
balance readable
in the smart contract so I could imagine
something like  maybe a common
something like maybe a common
Paradigm for read-only data would be
like if you have an off entry whenever
you read it you say you also have a
check to see if the rent balance has
fallen below some level and if so then
you call Rent bump on that value
so I guess or I don't know if that
would be possible then because or none
of that would be possible and so then
essentially
there's a g path and an expensive
path and so if your rent is above the
value then pre-flight would put that
entry in the read-only data set but if
your rent is below a value then
PreFlight would put it in the read write
set and bump the rent and so I think
that might be also another possible
solution for for often like read-only
data I mean that's kind of possible but
doesn't solve it for everything like
imagine again your token right and it
has the you know an admin and let's say
you don't mean this token much
so you don't touch the admin entry
frequently and then it would still
expire right you you know the admin
functions frequently enough so you know
for the important things you
it sure needs some sort of manual
tracking and you still need to
understand which entries need to be
updated they I'm sure we can avoid this
food just because you know some interest
may be rarely accessible well I think
that's okay actually
because if you don't access admin
very much and whatever you access it you
need to restore your admin entry I think
that's okay I think the case I'm talking
about is if you have some really value
that you access a ton that still gets
archived all the time
yeah but but my point is that you know
you can still forget to call it  so I
you can still forget to call it so I
mean rely on automatic bumps is not
going to always work
and another thing is that imagine
you know
oh maybe it's not a super good example
but I I've been just thinking about who
who pays for the bump right it's always
a source account who pays for the bumps
and
it would be a bit weird like if every
once in a while
like some transaction to your contract
suddenly becomes more expensive because
you need to bounce around but you may be
bump into rent of some entries that has
nothing to do with your account
specifically like for example let's say
you have some found that stores some
sorry some contracted Source some State
saying
it's like never going to change
right and it's always free download
and then there is no clear owner of the
token paywrites they're not
owned by any address or anything so what
would happen is like every once in a
while someone who trades with this
liquidity pool will need to pay for
their inbound I was a token payer record
which is a little bit awkward right
because I I just want to trade why would
it charge me more and you know I then
draw all the incentives to kind of try
to gain this and
president not submit transactions until
someone else has pumped you know I mean
it's definitely viable on paper but it
just leads to distribute situations for
you know you're in a bumping rent on the
some interest
you can respond to know about right I
guess it also depends on the amount
because it's well enough and it probably
doesn't matter but if it's high enough
then suddenly it becomes pretty annoying
for the user who ended up paying it
yeah thank you I agree like it we
probably need to think about those
couple of angles like the
people that want to kind of  maintain
people that want to kind of maintain
their their  run balance on on those
their their run balance on on those
like read-only type of items  that and
like read-only type of items that and
when I say people here could be a
contract that tries to do like like an
mm right that wants to kind of ensure
that it keeps alive its own thing at the
same time there are probably scenarios
where
you want to kind of
do that from the outside  in some way
do that from the outside in some way
right because you don't want every
contract
I mean yeah in the up cases where this
is going to not work like if nobody is
using it or and you need to revalue it
or I don't know
anyways we have time so
thank you everybody let's  continue
thank you everybody let's continue
those conversations actually we should
probably create  like explicit threads
probably create like explicit threads
on the
you know on the dev Channel
about those topics and then  yeah
about those topics and then yeah
we'll keep going
thank you again